foreman(1) -- manage Procfile-based applications
================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`foreman start [process]`<br>
`foreman run <command>`<br>
`foreman export <format> [location]`

## DESCRIPTION

Foreman is a manager for Procfile-based applications. Its aim is to
abstract away the details of the Procfile format, and allow you to either run
your application directly or export it to some other process management
format.

## RUNNING

`foreman start` is used to run your application directly from the command line.

If no additional parameters are passed, foreman will run one instance of each
type of process defined in your Procfile.

If a parameter is passed, foreman will run one instance of the specified
application type.

The following options control how the application is run:

  * `-c`, `--concurrency`:
    Specify the number of each process type to run. The value passed in
    should be in the format `process=num,process=num`

  * `-e`, `--env`:
    Specify one or more .env files to load

  * `-f`, `--procfile`:
    Specify an alternate Procfile to load, implies `-d` at the Procfile root.

  * `-p`, `--port`:
    Specify which port to use as the base for this application. Should be
    a multiple of 1000.

  * `-t`, `--timeout`:
    Specify the amount of time (in seconds) processes have to shutdown
    gracefully before receiving a SIGKILL, defaults to 5.

`foreman run` is used to run one-off commands using the same environment
as your defined processes.

## EXPORTING

`foreman export` is used to export your application to another process
management format.

An location to export can be passed as an argument. This argument may be
either required or optional depending on the export format.

The following options control how the application is run:

  * `-a`, `--app`:
    Use this name rather than the application's root directory name as the
    name of the application when exporting.

  * `-c`, `--concurrency`:
    Specify the number of each process type to run. The value passed in
    should be in the format `process=num,process=num`

  * `-l`, `--log`:
    Specify the directory to place process logs in.

  * `-p`, `--port`:
    Specify which port to use as the base for this application. Should be
    a multiple of 1000.

  * `-t`, `--template`:
    Specify an alternate template to use for creating export files.
    See <https://github.com/ddollar/foreman/tree/master/data/export> for examples.

  * `-u`, `--user`:
    Specify the user the application should be run as. Defaults to the
    app name

## GLOBAL OPTIONS

These options control all modes of foreman's operation.

  * `-d`, `--root`:
    Specify an alternate application root. This defaults to the directory
    containing the Procfile.

  * `-e`, `--env`:
    Specify an alternate environment file. You can specify more than one
    file by using: `--env file1,file2`.

  * `-f`, `--procfile`:
    Specify an alternate location for the application's Procfile. This file's
    containing directory will be assumed to be the root directory of the
    application.

## EXPORT FORMATS

foreman currently supports the following output formats:

  * bluepill

  * inittab

  * launchd

  * runit

  * supervisord

  * systemd

  * upstart

## INITTAB EXPORT

Will export a chunk of inittab-compatible configuration:

    # ----- foreman example processes -----
    EX01:4:respawn:/bin/su - example -c 'PORT=5000 bundle exec thin start >> /var/log/web-1.log 2>&1'
    EX02:4:respawn:/bin/su - example -c 'PORT=5100 bundle exec rake jobs:work >> /var/log/job-1.log 2>&1'
    # ----- end foreman example processes -----

## SYSTEMD EXPORT

Will create a series of systemd scripts in the location you specify. Scripts
will be structured to make the following commands valid:

  `systemctl start appname.target`

  `systemctl stop appname-processname.target`

  `systemctl restart appname-processname-3.service`

## UPSTART EXPORT

Will create a series of upstart scripts in the location you specify. Scripts
will be structured to make the following commands valid:

  `start appname`

  `stop appname-processname`

  `restart appname-processname-3`

## PROCFILE

A Procfile should contain both a name for the process and the command used
to run it.

    web: bundle exec thin start
    job: bundle exec rake jobs:work

A process name may contain letters, numbers and the underscore character.
You can validate your Procfile format using the `check` command:

    $ foreman check

## ENVIRONMENT

If a `.env` file exists in the current directory, the default environment will
be read from it. This file should contain key/value pairs, separated by `=`, with
one key/value pair per line.

    FOO=bar
    BAZ=qux

## DEFAULT OPTIONS

If a `.foreman` file exists in the current directory, default options will
be read from it. This file should be in YAML format with the long option
name as keys. Example:

    concurrency: alpha=0,bravo=1
    port: 15000

## EXAMPLES

Start one instance of each process type, interleave the output on stdout:

    $ foreman start

Export the application in upstart format:

    $ foreman export upstart /etc/init

Run one process type from the application defined in a specific Procfile:

    $ foreman start alpha -f ~/myapp/Procfile

Start all processes except the one named worker:

    $ foreman start -c all=1,worker=0

## COPYRIGHT

Foreman is Copyright (C) 2010 David Dollar <http://daviddollar.org>
